---
layout: post
title:  "Want"
date:   2024-08-18 15:36:35 +08:00
categories: firstperson
published: true
---
I find myself unable to express my perspective on life in any meaningful capacity, particularly within the landscape of conversation, even amongst my closest confidantes. I do not believe that this is due to any particular inability on my part, but is intrinsic to the values I hold and the degree to which they stand at the periphery of most people's thoughts. I feel that my stance on the concept of **want** is the strongest indication of my overall thought process.

Want, as I see it, is the source of a great many complications in life. Want is a derivation of happiness, and is the illusion through which many believe the latter is obtained. To be specific, I consider the want of necessities (a shelter to live in, food to eat, water to drink, friends as a cure to isolation) to be a purified version of want, safe from the drawbacks I discuss below. These wants are justified by purpose, and therefore I discard them from further discussion, as they are outside of the concerns I hold. 

I have observed, through no objective means, that want has increased with time. Particularly in regard to physical possessions (materialism). Want distracts from greater fulfilment, yet it has proliferated, now foremost in the minds of everybody. Want does not apply only to the material, but also the immaterial, the spiritual, the purely conversational. Want is its own growth factor, tightening its hold (and importance) only when an individual gives in to its temptation.

A subset of the forms of want is as follows:
1. Want of the material (Clothes, a better computer, a nicer car, a bigger house, etc.),
  - clothes,
  - a faster computer,
  - a nicer car,
  - a bigger house,
  - etc.
2. Want of external admiration
  - Praise for public accomplishment,
  - Praise for ownership,
  - Praise for perspective,
  - etc.
3. Want of authority
  - Managing others, 
  - Leading without necessity,
  - etc.
4. Want of simplicity
  - Reducing one's lot,
  - "passing the buck", 
  - passing on responsibilities due to fear.
  - etc.
5. Want of self
  - misanthropy,
  - solitdue,
  - etc.

I am particularly guilty of the Wants of simplicity and self, attempting to live more meagrely than I ought to, providing less to society than I owe. Wants of the material are simply an extension of the wants of the mind, and I list the above in order of ascending danger (societally). Allowing manifestations of want to grow results in division, poor leadership and an increasingly divided society.

## A description of the Wants
The **want of self** is often confused for individuality, but these are not the same. Whereas individuality allows the presence of differing opinions and skillsets, the want of self allows these differences to die in the individual, without ever being shared with others. The want of self reduces the means with which one can give back to their friends, family and society, as well as allowing for the uncontended rise of tyranny and injustice. Societies must be connected to ensure stability in the long term.

The **want of simplicity** is a logical fallacy held by every successive generation, revitalising itself in the minds of the young when faced with adulthood. This fallacy can be summarised quite succinctly, *"My parents fought hard for their way of life, and they won. They achieved the goal they strove for and found something sustainable. Thanks to them, I can live more simply, as I only need to maintain the surplus they have bestowed upon me."* This is, of course, impossible. To intentionally opt out of decision-making and necessary struggles is to deprive not only oneself, but society as a whole of the strength needed to face hard times. Happiness means nothing if it is maintained vacuously, with no understanding of its origin.

The **want of authority** is the least common of the listed wants, but is often the most incensing (note the universal hatred of C-suite executives). Leadership is based in preparation and pragmatism, as opposed to the illusory glamour that this want purports. Leaders understand that leadership is a burden, and so they opt for small changes when absolutely necessary, relying, mostly, on inertia to maintain the minds of their subordinates. Individuals that wish to be in positions of leadership for status, illusions of grandeur, or the desire to "move the needle" are inherently dangerous, as the impetus for their action is not born of necessity.

The **want of external admiration** is especially pervasive among the young. Such a want ignores the needs of individuals and/or those they interact with. It provides false justification for action and reduces individuality by forming group-based ideals. A generation's vogue is favored over the strengths of the individual, causing information to be lost until a future generation arrives to re-learn what was lost. Admiration of the other should be present in a healthy society. Individuals should be praised for their efforts, if particularly spectacular. Without praise, or admiration, we become robots who live only to spin the wheel. The requirement of such admiration is the danger, and one should be comfortable living on their own ideals as a substitution.

The **want of the material** is the least concrete - most apparent - of the wants, generated from the other wants. An individual desires the material when they, consciously or unconsciously, fail the maintenance of the other 4 wants. To make up for this regression, the mind decides that the answer lies somewhere in the physical realm. This is further steered by societal factors, such as marketing, but ultimately lies in the mind of the individual.

## The antidote to Want

Want is universal, timeless and ever expanding. I find myself fighting want on a daily basis, brought to the reminder that it leads nowhere. Reducing one's reliance on want will result in short-term pain. The endurance of pain, no matter how minor, whether it be physical or psychological in nature, produces a sum-total-good far greater than the initial perceived loss attributed to the pain. Frustration leads to elation, fatigue leads to strength, boredom leads to creativity, frugality leads to extravagance, sternness leads to loyalty and honesty.

Do not aim for pain, do not aim for want. Aim for the desires of your heart and mind. They belong uniquely to you, not your parents, not your friends, not the government, not your boss. You. Investing in yourself **will** improve your life, as well as the all those you interact with.

*As long as we live we cannot lose, as to live at all is to live in surplus. While we are here we should not dwell on all that is bent and broken, we should strive to repair and rebuild.*
